AI Service Center Berlin-Brandenburg
The AI Service Center Berlin-Brandenburg is a project at the Hasso Plattner Institute funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research. Our goal is to lower the barriers to the use of Artificial Intelligence in business and society. 
 
We support start-ups, companies, public institutions, students and researchers in developing, operating and using AI applications. To this end, we provide the necessary infrastructure, training and advice free of charge.

AI Infrastructure: Our AI infrastructure offers platforms for training, inference and system integration. This enables us to create a foundation for the development and transfer of AI applications. The AI infrastructure builds on existing HPI computing resources and operating concepts such as the Future SOC Lab.

AI Education Offerings: Our AI education offerings range from lectures and MOOCs to workshops that allow you to deepen and expand your knowledge and skills around AI. We offer free educational programs in Potsdam, Berlin and online.

AI Advisory: Our advisory services address your individual AI use cases and support you in implementing them. Our consultations take place in the context of basic research and scientific pilot projects.

AI Workshops
The AI Service Center weekly AI workshops take place in small groups so that teachers can respond individually to participants and their different levels of prior knowledge.

AI Maker Sessions
If you want to deepen your knowledge and skills in the field of artificial intelligence, our AI maker sessions are the right place for you. The workshop series offers a comprehensive insight into various AI-related topics such as training and evaluation of machine learning models, neural network architectures and MLOps. In addition, participants will be prepared for our planned certification program for AI experts. The workshops take place every Tuesday and Thursday evening. Depending on the workshop, in Potsdam, Berlin or online.

Paper Reading Sessions
The AI Service Center weekly paper reading sessions are aimed at AI users, data scientists and software engineers. These workshops cover the latest developments in automatic natural language processing, computer vision and other related fields.  The sessions take place online every Wednesday afternoon.

Detailed information on the individual workshop content can be found in our AI Maker Community on Slack. There we also offer monthly summaries of research results and developments around AI as well as the opportunity to network with other AI enthusiasts.

AI Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs)
On the "AI Service Center" channel of the openHPI platform, we offer a selection of online courses on various AI topics.

AI Certificate
We are preparing an AI certificate that will certify your knowledge of AI topics.

AI Lectures
We invite you to recurring lectures on AI topics on site at HPI in Potsdam.

Guest Talks 
On HPI tele-TASK you will find in-depth talks on current AI topics from research, development and business under the category Guest Talks.

Lectures 
At the AI Service Center we also offer our own lectures, which are aimed at a broad audience from society and business without requiring a lot of prior knowledge, providing a basic classification of AI and explaining the opportunities and risks of AI.

Were you unable to find the right educational program for you? Then feel free to take a look at the School of Design Thinking, the School of Entrepreneurship, the Mittelstand Digital Center Berlin and the HPI Research Schools.


AI Advisory Services
At the AI Service Center we offer individual meetings in which we discuss your specific application. The meetings take place either online or on site in Potsdam or Berlin.

AI Advisory
With the AI Service Center AI advisory, we support you free of charge with the implementation of your own AI applications. In particular, we can advise you on the use and operation of computing infrastructure and support you in considering on-premise or cloud operation. We also provide methodological advice on the selection of AI model architectures, AI software frameworks and the implementation of AI applications, taking into account the latest scientific research findings.

AI Pilot Projects
Pilot projects at the AI Service Center go beyond basic consulting. We define pilot projects as the prototypical implementation of ideas that you bring to us and that we implement together with you. 

For AI pilot projects our advisory consists of the following steps:
Understanding and identifying the use case 
Specify the use case and requirements
Working together to develop a solution
Finalizing and documenting the pilot project

Cooperations
If you do not have a specific AI use case that you would like to implement with us, but still want to work with us, we offer you cooperation in the form of co-organized networking events or educational offerings such as workshops, lectures or Massive Open Online Courses.

Start-up Support
If you approach us on behalf of a start-up, we offer to accompany you during your development process and also support you in networking through our AI advisory, pilot projects and collaborations.

Computing Resource Offerings
With our data centre in Potsdam, we provide a heterogeneous infrastructure for artificial intelligence. This allows us to explore the requirements and needs of different stakeholders such as academic institutions, start-ups or small and medium-sized enterprises. In this way, we can compare the costs and performance of different types of hardware, investigate edge applications and provide flexible solutions for the development, optimization and implementation of complex AI models.

We will gladly help you to use our infrastructure. To do so, please send us a brief project description and a signed copy of the user agreement, with which you accept our terms of use.

We will also be happy to support you in selecting suitable resources and inform you about the advantages and disadvantages of cloud, on-premise and hybrid solutions.

Infrastructure Specifics
Our most powerful hardware are 8 NVIDIA Basepods, each with 8 H100 GPUs (each with 80 GB VRAM), which can be used for training AI models. The H100 pods communicate with each other via 400 Gb/s Infiniband or 200 Gb/s Ethernet. 

For inference, 5 NVIDIA pods with 8 A30 each are available, which communicate with 25 Gb/s Infiniband or 40 Gb/s Ethernet. In addition, we offer access to an NVIDA Jetson AGX module, an ARM server and a server in a medium price range which are also relevant for SMEs.

Procedure: Access Infrastructure
Request via form or E-mail
Confirmation of the available resources
Signing of the usage contract and creation of the usage requirements
Limited access to computing resources
Documentation of the results and findings obtained
